Analyzing Captured Traffic

PROTOCOL - Set of rules that governs the communication between systems. Determines how information is 
laid out in a packet

When searching for a website it uses the Domain Name System (DNS) protocol to communicate with the 
DNS Server:

1. Starts by sending a DNS Query Requesting the IP of the website (https://cs.virginia.edu/).
2. DNS server will then respond with the IP address.

Example: Kali asks Google DNS and then Google DNS tells Kali the IP

HEADER FIELDS in a packet tell you who it is from and where it is going.
These header fields contain ip addresses and source and destination port numbers.

Port numbers on a machine are all unique and no two processes on one machine can be the same.

PROCESS - abstraction that represents a running program. When a process wants to send or receive
information through the network, the operating system assigns that process a port number

Example: Packets for a web server arrive at your ip address on port 443

PORTS - Expose internal processes to the network. Allow multiple processes on you computer to 
communicate with the internet at the same time.

When your operating system receives a packet it examines the port number to decide whether the
packet is for the browser or messenger. Ports open up oppurtunities for attacks. Attackers can
scan machines for open ports. When a machine has open ports they will try to infect the machine
with malicious packets.

FIVE-LAYER INTERNET PROTOCOL STACK

Application -> Transport -> Network -> Data -> Physical ------->sent
Physical -> Data -> Network -> Transport -> Application

Each layer is responsible for managing the communication between specific components in the network.
The layers are independent and its actions are not effected by other layers.

ENCAPSULATION - Protocol stack that ensures they are independent and treat layers above as generic data.

Example:
a. Composing and sending an email (Happens in the application layer)
b. The message associated with the email are then placed in transport packets, but does not read or alter the email in any way. It labels the packets (Transport Layer)
c. Then goes to the network layer packets, then data layer packets, and is finally transmitted.
NOTE: Each layer makes decisions without depending on the information from a previous layer.
